
Reporting on the Surprising Aftermaths of Shocking Tragedies
By Eren Orbey
October 14, 2024
The New Yorker Daily Newsletter
You’re reading The New Yorker’s daily newsletter, a guide to our top stories, featuring exclusive insights from our writers and editors. Sign up to receive it in your inbox.

In today’s newsletter, behind the conversations with Patrick Clancy, whose three children were killed by their mother, Lindsay, in a tragedy that caught the attention of the world. And then:

    The spiralling home-insurance crisis
    The house that Alvin Ailey built
    Dyson wants to put mushrooms in your hair

Patrick Clancy.
Four days after Patrick Clancy’s wife, Lindsay, strangled their children, he publicly forgave her. “The real Lindsay was generously loving and caring,” he wrote.Photographs by Sarah Blesener for The New Yorker

Eren Orbey
Contributing writer

My stories for The New Yorker often focus on how people come to understand the most horrible things that happen to them—whether the subject is a woman who befriends the man convicted of her father’s murder or a lawyer who builds her anti-abortion advocacy on her identity as a child conceived through rape. This week, I’ve written about Patrick Clancy, whose wife, Lindsay, killed their three young children in January of 2023, in the midst of a postpartum mental-health crisis. In a note to the public a few days later, Pat forgave her, describing “the real Lindsay” as “generously loving and caring.”

The couple was from Massachusetts, where I live, and news updates about the case were unavoidable there. At first, there was a public outpouring of support for Lindsay, a respected labor-and-delivery nurse with no criminal record. Little was understood about her mental health, but many people on social media swiftly turned the tragedy into a cautionary tale about postpartum mood disorders. Prosecutors had charged Lindsay with three counts each of murder and strangulation, but her lawyer, setting up an insanity defense, told the story of an exemplary mother who was failed by the medical system and suffered a psychotic break.

Soon afterward, details revealed at Lindsay’s arraignment prompted a backlash. On the night in question, she’d sent her husband out of the house on an errand before strangling the children. Although she’d been given a diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder, prosecutors said that she hadn’t reported hallucinations or any other conspicuous psychotic symptoms until after she’d met with her defense team. Postpartum mental illnesses can be insidious and take many different forms, but the prosecution’s depiction of Lindsay challenged the stereotypical assumptions about insanity that had seemingly informed the public’s initial sympathy.

I wondered how Pat Clancy’s feelings had evolved since he first forgave his wife. In the summer of 2023, I tried to contact him. That December, almost a year after the tragedy, he wrote back. We proceeded to meet for long conversations in New York, where he’d moved to escape the media frenzy. Pat hadn’t granted any interviews until then, but he seemed keen to tell his version of the story. “I wasn’t married to a monster,” he said. “I was married to someone who got sick.”
The Financial Page
A photo of a person walking through debris of a home destroyed by Hurricane Helene in Florida. There is a green tinted...
The debris of a home destroyed by Hurricane Helene, in Florida.Source photograph by Joe Raedle / Getty
The Home-Insurance Crisis That Won’t End After Hurricane Season

The insurance industry is “utterly uprepared for rising sea levels and other products of climate change,” John Cassidy writes. Major insurers are pulling out of high-risk areas, such as Florida and parts of California, and it is getting harder for consumers everywhere to find affordable policies. Can the federal government provide a solution? Read more »

The Financial Page publishes every Monday.
More Top Stories

    The House That Alvin Ailey Built
    James Dyson Moves Beyond the Air-Whooshing

Daily Cartoon
Donald Trump sits and speaks in a psychologists office while a doctor performs a Rorschach test on him.
“Why do you keep showing me pictures of Obama?”
Cartoon by Evan Lian and Evan Allgood

Link copied
More Fun & Games

    Play today’s challenging puzzle. A clue: Baseball film whose protagonist uses a bat named Wonderboy. Ten letters.

P.S. Today, on Indigenous Peoples’ Day, read Manvir Singh on the contested meaning of the word “indigenous,” and why many scholars are arguing that it is time to rethink how we use it. “Indigeneity is powerful,” Singh writes. “Yet there’s also something troubling about categorizing a wildly diverse array of peoples around the world within a single identity.”

Ian Crouch contributed to this edition.
Eren Orbey, a contributing writer, has been writing for The New Yorker since 2016.
Read More
On Television
“Furious” Is a Crime Drama for a Post-Epstein World
Elizabeth Meriwether’s new series, which follows a female killer seeking vengeance against a network of abusers, is brutal, nuanced, and, at times, surprisingly funny.
By Inkoo Kang
Humor
Bari Weiss Is On It
Our first goal, as with “60 Minutes,” is balance. Lake Mead has been on the north side of the Hoover Dam for too long. When we’re finished, it will be on the south side, too.
By Chris Kelly
Progress Report
The Godmother of the “Conspiracy Mom”
Sixty years ago, a J.F.K.-assassination buff in Oklahoma provided a preview of a contemporary archetype.
By Jessica Winter
Election 2026
Max Miller’s Victim Mentality
The Republican congressman’s bitter domestic dispute—in which he’s accused of physical abuse by his ex-wife, the daughter of an Ohio senator—is testing his party’s willingness to defend the indefensible.
By Benjamin Wallace-Wells
Our Far-Flung Correspondents
The Man Who Was Kidnapped Twice
Thousands of people in Nigeria have been held for ransom by bandit groups. One professor escaped his captors—only to be abducted again.
By Alexis Okeowo
Fiction
“The Promise”
You couldn’t be certain, in the night, what sort of world the doors might open onto, were you to turn the knob.
By Rachel Yoder
Fiction
“The Blight”
You weighed the future anger of others against the present trouble, and then you pretty much said, O.K. Kick the can down the road.
By Emma Cline
Cover Story
Pierre-Emmanuel Lyet’s “Repose”
Soaking up the sun.
By Françoise Mouly
Humor
Daily Cartoon: Monday, July 27th
A drawing that riffs on the latest news and happenings.
By Rich North
Catalogues
Catalogues: Thursday, July 23, 2026
Can you sort the items into the correct order?
By Adam Wagner
Flash Fiction
“One and No One”
When the angel came to Craig, he was seven, squatting in the outhouse at camp.
By Gabriel Winslow-Yost
<i>The New Yorker</i> takes you places. <br> Subscribe for <del>$2.50</del> <strong>50¢ per week for one year.</strong> <br> Plus, get a free tote. <br> Cancel or pause anytime. <br> CTA: Subscribe
The New Yorker

Sections

    NewsBooks & CultureFiction & PoetryHumor & CartoonsMagazineCrosswordVideoPodcasts100th AnniversaryGoings On

More

    Manage AccountShop The New YorkerBuy Covers and CartoonsCondé Nast StoreDigital AccessSubscribeNewslettersJigsaw PuzzleRSSSite Map

    AboutCareersContactF.A.Q.Media KitPressAccessibility HelpUser AgreementPrivacy PolicyYour California Privacy Rights

© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. The New Yorker may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

